Serverless architecture introduces some new patterns that make it difficult
to know what you should care about in terms of security.
AWS handles many of the security concerns of your app with Lambda,
so there are really only a couple of considerations.
When lambdas execute,
they assume an IAM role for permissions for use when
accessing any resources other than themselves.
These IAM roles should follow the principle of least privilege, which I
covered in a previous course in this AWS Developer path.
To quickly restate the principle of least privilege says
that a resource should only be given the permissions it
absolutely needs and no more.
In the case of lambdas,
this means that the permissions in a lambda's role should only be what it needs.
In the demo application, most lambdas have one function.
So, it's likely that most will have their own role.
Indeed,
Amazon recommends that every lambda function have its own
unique role and that none should share.
For our demo application,
I don't know if we have to go that far since we have a few lambdas that
would require the exact same permissions for a role.
When we deployed our demo application with the Serverless Framework,
it set up the functions with all the same IAM role.
If you look in the serverless.yml configuration file,
you can see the permissions that were configured on that role.
We've got access to CloudFront and access to Kinesis,
both not limited to any specific resource.
I'd like to trim this down for a few lambdas so we can
make our application more secure.
Let's start by creating the role.
We can do this from inside the lambda we want to modify.
So, go to the Lambda dashboard.
Select the function ending in processAction.
This lambda consumes records from the Kinesis Stream
and saves them to our database.
Scroll to the Configuration tab and then select the
Permissions menu option on the left.
In the Resource summary section,
this box here is a drop‑down that shows what services and
resources the lambda already has permissions for based on
the role that is attached.
Since this lambda is really only receiving records from Kinesis,
it doesn't need access to something like CloudFront. Above the
Resource summary section is the execution role.
As you can see, this lambda already has a role attached to it. But I want to
create a new one with some fine‑tuned permissions that will be appropriate for
this lambda specifically. Click the Edit button,
then scroll down and look in the Execution role section.
Lambda gives you the option to use an existing role or
create a new one with some policy templates.
These templates really aren't specific enough for what I want.
So, I want to go ahead and create a new role. We'll do that in
another tab, and then we'll come back here,
refresh the existing role drop‑down, and then select it. So to do that,
we'll need to first manually create that new role.
So click on this very tiny IAM console link right here.
It'll open up a new tab to create the role.
We will be creating this role for a lambda function.
So, select Lambda here and then click Next.
AWS has already created a managed policy that is specifically
designed for lambdas that consume Kinesis Streams.
If you search for lambdakinesis, all one word,
you'll see the policy AWSLambdaKinesisExecutionRole, which gives access to
write to CloudWatch Logs and read from Kinesis Streams.
Next, search for lambdavpc, all one word, and select the
AWSLambdaVPCAccessExecutionRole, which will allow our lambda to
interact with VPC network interfaces.
Now our role has all the permissions our lambda needs and no
more. Click Next and then Review. Now we'll give the role a
name that links it to the lambda it's used for. So enter
trash_panda_buffet_processAction.
Finally, click Create role. From here,
go back to the Lambda function tab. Click the Refresh button next
to this drop‑down to update the list of available roles and then
select the role that we just created.
Now the processAction lambda function has only the permissions
it absolutely needs for what it's doing,
effectively locking it down.
You can perform similar actions for the other lambdas in our
demo application to restrict what they have access to, but we won't do that here for time's sake.